docs/examples/introduction.md, before:

---
template: main.html
title: Introducing 22 Example Themes
description: 22 Example themes. 10 themes are created with the 'Dynamic' feature of the Figma Material Theme Builder and 12 using the 'Custom' color function.
tags:
  - Examples
---
#Introducing 22 Example themes
I've created several sample themes based on the [Material 3 concepts][Material 3 Home Assistant concepts] and [Material 3 implementation][Material 3 Home Assistant implementation] to give you an idea of ​​the looks & possibilities:

- 10 themes are created with the 'Dynamic' feature of the Figma Material Theme Builder, which uses an image to determine the colors.
- The other 12 themes are created using the 'Custom' function of the Figma Material Theme Builder, where I specified the primary color. I used the rainbow colors from the website [CIElab.io][cielab-io-url]: red, volcano, orange, gold, yellow, lime, green, cyan, blue, geek blue, purple, and magenta.

<!--
<br><br>The 12 colors (excluding grey) from the CIELab site:
  # ![cielab-io-colors-png]
-->

You can [install][Material 3 Theme Installation] each example using HACS or manually.

!!! warning "At this moment not all examples are already available in GitHub, nor in HACS"
    You can see it on the example page where "No repository found" is displayed.

##:material-home-floor-3: Examples in order of the color wheel

All examples show [example view \#12][AmoebeLabs Swiss Army Knife Example 12] of the Swiss Army Knife custom card:

- Examples created with the 'Dynamic' theme builder feature have the prefix 'D'
- Examples created with the 'Custom' theme builder feature have the prefix 'C'.

You may see some similarities between the examples below as a result of the Material 3 calculations :smile:
The Material 3 color picker can create the same primary color, although different colors are picked by the user. I have shown some examples [here][material-3-analysis-picking-the-hue-url]

| **Light variant** | **Dark variant**|
| ------------ | ---------------- |
| **[Example c01, Red Light][example-c1-md]:** [![m3-example-c01-light-png]][example-c1-md] | **[Example c01, Red Dark][example-c1-md]:** [![m3-example-c01-dark-png]][example-c1-md] |
| **[Example d08, Red Light][example-d8-md]:** [![m3-example-d08-light-png]][example-d8-md] | **[Example d08, Red Dark][example-d8-md]:** [![m3-example-d08-dark-png]][example-d8-md] |
| **[Example c02, Volcano Light][example-c2-md]:** [![m3-example-c02-light-png]][example-c2-md] | **[Example c02, Volcano Dark][example-c2-md]:** [![m3-example-c02-dark-png]][example-c2-md] |
| **[Example d05, Brown Light][example-d5-md]:** [![m3-example-d05-light-png]][example-d5-md] | **[Example d05, Brown Dark][example-d5-md]:** [![m3-example-d05-dark-png]][example-d5-md] |
| **[Example c03, Orange Light][example-c3-md]:** [![m3-example-c03-light-png]][example-c3-md] | **[Example c03, Orange Dark][example-c3-md]:** [![m3-example-c03-dark-png]][example-c3-md]|
| **[Example c04, Gold Light][example-c4-md]:** [![m3-example-c04-light-png]][example-c4-md] | **[Example c04, Gold Dark][example-c4-md]:** [![m3-example-c04-dark-png]][example-c4-md] |
| **[Example d03, Porcupine Light][example-d3-md]:** [![m3-example-d03-light-png]][example-d3-md] | **[Example d03, Porcupine Dark][example-d3-md]:** [![m3-example-d03-dark-png]][example-d3-md] |
| **[Example c05, Yellow Light][example-c5-md]:** [![m3-example-c05-light-png]][example-c5-md] | **[Example c05, Yellow Dark][example-c5-md]:** [![m3-example-c05-dark-png]][example-c5-md] |
| **[Example d07, Dark Olive Green Light][example-d7-md]:** [![m3-example-d07-light-png]][example-d7-md] | **[Example d07, Dark Olive Green Dark][example-d7-md]:** [![m3-example-d07-dark-png]][example-d7-md] |
| **[Example c06, Lime Light][example-c6-md]:** [![m3-example-c06-light-png]][example-c6-md] | **[Example c06, Lime Dark][example-c6-md]:** [![m3-example-c06-dark-png]][example-c6-md] |
| **[Example c07, Green Light][example-c7-md]:** [![m3-example-c07-light-png]][example-c7-md] | **[Example c07, Green Dark][example-c7-md]:** [![m3-example-c07-dark-png]][example-c7-md] |
| **[Example d10, Green Light][example-d10-md]:** [![m3-example-d10-light-png]][example-d10-md] | **[Example d10, Green Dark][example-d10-md]:** [![m3-example-d10-dark-png]][example-d10-md] |
| **[Example d02, Cadmium Green Light][example-d2-md]:** [![m3-example-d02-light-png]][example-d2-md] | **[Example d02, Cadmium Green Dark][example-d2-md]:** [![m3-example-d02-dark-png]][example-d2-md] |
| **[Example c08, Cyan Light][example-c8-md]:** [![m3-example-c08-light-png]][example-c8-md] | **[Example c08, Cyan Dark][example-c8-md]:** [![m3-example-c08-dark-png]][example-c8-md] |
| **[Example d06, Teal Blue Light][example-d6-md]:** [![m3-example-d06-light-png]][example-d6-md] | **[Example d06, Teal Blue Dark][example-d6-md]:** [![m3-example-d06-dark-png]][example-d6-md] |
| **[Example c09, Blue Light][example-c9-md]:** [![m3-example-c09-light-png]][example-c9-md] | **[Example c09, Blue Dark][example-c9-md]:** [![m3-example-c09-dark-png]][example-c9-md] |
| **[Example d09, Indigo Light][example-d9-md]:** [![m3-example-d09-light-png]][example-d9-md] | **[Example d09, Indigo Dark][example-d9-md]:** [![m3-example-d09-dark-png]][example-d9-md] |
| **[Example c10, Geek Blue Light][example-c10-md]:** [![m3-example-c10-light-png]][example-c10-md] | **[Example c10, Geek Blue Dark][example-c10-md]:** [![m3-example-c10-dark-png]][example-c10-md] |
| **[Example d01, Purple Light][example-d01-md]:** [![m3-example-d01-light-png]][example-d01-md] | **[Example d01, Purple Dark][example-d01-md]:** [![m3-example-d01-dark-png]][example-d01-md] |
| **[Example c11, Purple Light][example-c11-md]:** [![m3-example-c11-light-png]][example-c11-md] | **[Example c11, Purple Dark][example-c11-md]:** [![m3-example-c11-dark-png]][example-c11-md] |
| **[Example d04, Magenta Light][example-d4-md]:** [![m3-example-d04-light-png]][example-d4-md] | **[Example d04, Magenta Dark][example-d4-md]:** [![m3-example-d04-dark-png]][example-d4-md] |
| **[Example c12, Magenta Light][example-c12-md]:** [![m3-example-c12-light-png]][example-c12-md] | **[Example c12, Magenta Dark][example-c12-md]:** [![m3-example-c12-dark-png]][example-c12-md] |


<!--- References to pictures... --->

[m3-example-d01-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d01-light.png
[m3-example-d02-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d02-light.png
[m3-example-d03-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d03-light.png
[m3-example-d04-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d04-light.png
[m3-example-d05-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d05-light.png
[m3-example-d06-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d06-light.png
[m3-example-d07-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d07-light.png
[m3-example-d08-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d08-light.png
[m3-example-d09-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d09-light.png
[m3-example-d10-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d10-light.png

[m3-example-d01-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d01-dark.png
[m3-example-d02-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d02-dark.png
[m3-example-d03-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d03-dark.png
[m3-example-d04-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d04-dark.png
[m3-example-d05-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d05-dark.png
[m3-example-d06-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d06-dark.png
[m3-example-d07-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d07-dark.png
[m3-example-d08-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d08-dark.png
[m3-example-d09-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d09-dark.png
[m3-example-d10-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d10-dark.png

[m3-example-c01-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c01-light.png
[m3-example-c02-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c02-light.png
[m3-example-c03-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c03-light.png
[m3-example-c04-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c04-light.png
[m3-example-c05-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c05-light.png
[m3-example-c06-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c06-light.png
[m3-example-c07-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c07-light.png
[m3-example-c08-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c08-light.png
[m3-example-c09-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c09-light.png
[m3-example-c10-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c10-light.png
[m3-example-c11-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c11-light.png
[m3-example-c12-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c12-light.png

[m3-example-c01-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c01-dark.png
[m3-example-c02-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c02-dark.png
[m3-example-c03-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c03-dark.png
[m3-example-c04-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c04-dark.png
[m3-example-c05-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c05-dark.png
[m3-example-c06-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c06-dark.png
[m3-example-c07-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c07-dark.png
[m3-example-c08-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c08-dark.png
[m3-example-c09-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c09-dark.png
[m3-example-c10-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c10-dark.png
[m3-example-c11-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c11-dark.png
[m3-example-c12-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c12-dark.png

[cielab-io-colors-png]: ../assets/screenshots/cielab-io-colors.png

<!--- References to internal links... --->

[example-d01-md]: ../examples/example-d1.md
[example-d2-md]: ../examples/example-d2.md
[example-d3-md]: ../examples/example-d3.md
[example-d4-md]: ../examples/example-d4.md
[example-d5-md]: ../examples/example-d5.md
[example-d6-md]: ../examples/example-theme-d06-tealblue.md
[example-d7-md]: ../examples/example-d7.md
[example-d8-md]: ../examples/example-d8.md
[example-d9-md]: ../examples/example-d9.md
[example-d10-md]: ../examples/example-d10.md

[example-c1-md]: ../examples/example-c1.md
[example-c2-md]: ../examples/example-c2.md
[example-c3-md]: ../examples/example-c3.md
[example-c4-md]: ../examples/example-c4.md
[example-c5-md]: ../examples/example-c5.md
[example-c6-md]: ../examples/example-c6.md
[example-c7-md]: ../examples/example-c7.md
[example-c8-md]: ../examples/example-c8.md
[example-c9-md]: ../examples/example-c9.md
[example-c10-md]: ../examples/example-c10.md
[example-c11-md]: ../examples/example-c11.md
[example-c12-md]: ../examples/example-c12.md

[material-3-analysis-picking-the-hue-url]: ../../basics/m3-analysis-hue-picker/
[Material 3 Home Assistant implementation]: ../../basics/ha-m3-implementation/
[Material 3 Home Assistant concepts]: ../../basics/ha-m3-introduction/
[Material 3 Theme Installation]: ../../start/installation/

<!--- References to external links... --->

[AmoebeLabs Swiss Army Knife Example 12]: https://swiss-army-knife.docs.amoebelabs.com/examples/example-12/
[cielab-io-url]: https://cielab.io

Commit message:

Add Design your OWN content steps

docs/examples/introduction.md, after:

---
template: main.html
title: Introducing 22 Example Themes
description: 22 Example themes. 10 themes are created with the 'Dynamic' feature of the Figma Material Theme Builder and 12 using the 'Custom' color function.
tags:
  - Examples
---
#Introducing 22 Example themes
I've created several themes based on the [Material 3 concepts][Material 3 Home Assistant concepts] and [Material 3 implementation][Material 3 Home Assistant implementation] to give you an idea of ​​the looks & possibilities:

- 10 themes are created with the 'Dynamic' feature of the Figma Material Theme Builder, which uses an image to determine the colors.
- The other 12 themes are created using the 'Custom' function of the Figma Material Theme Builder, where I specified the primary color. I used the rainbow colors from the website [CIElab.io][cielab-io-url]: red, volcano, orange, gold, yellow, lime, green, cyan, blue, geek blue, purple, and magenta.

The steps to create these themes are described in "[Design your Own][Material 3 Design Your Own Theme]".
<!--
<br><br>The 12 colors (excluding grey) from the CIELab site:
  # ![cielab-io-colors-png]
-->

You can [install][Material 3 Theme Installation] each example using HACS or manually.

!!! warning "At this moment not all examples are already available in GitHub, nor in HACS"
    You can see it on the example page where "No repository found" is displayed.

##:material-home-floor-3: Examples in order of the color wheel

All examples show [example view \#12][AmoebeLabs Swiss Army Knife Example 12] of the Swiss Army Knife custom card:

- Examples created with the 'Dynamic' theme builder feature have the prefix 'D'
- Examples created with the 'Custom' theme builder feature have the prefix 'C'.

You may see some similarities between the examples below as a result of the Material 3 calculations :smile:
The Material 3 color picker can create the same primary color, although different colors are picked by the user. I have shown some examples [here][material-3-analysis-picking-the-hue-url]

| **Light variant** | **Dark variant**|
| ------------ | ---------------- |
| **[Example c01, Red Light][example-c1-md]:** [![m3-example-c01-light-png]][example-c1-md] | **[Example c01, Red Dark][example-c1-md]:** [![m3-example-c01-dark-png]][example-c1-md] |
| **[Example d08, Red Light][example-d8-md]:** [![m3-example-d08-light-png]][example-d8-md] | **[Example d08, Red Dark][example-d8-md]:** [![m3-example-d08-dark-png]][example-d8-md] |
| **[Example c02, Volcano Light][example-c2-md]:** [![m3-example-c02-light-png]][example-c2-md] | **[Example c02, Volcano Dark][example-c2-md]:** [![m3-example-c02-dark-png]][example-c2-md] |
| **[Example d05, Brown Light][example-d5-md]:** [![m3-example-d05-light-png]][example-d5-md] | **[Example d05, Brown Dark][example-d5-md]:** [![m3-example-d05-dark-png]][example-d5-md] |
| **[Example c03, Orange Light][example-c3-md]:** [![m3-example-c03-light-png]][example-c3-md] | **[Example c03, Orange Dark][example-c3-md]:** [![m3-example-c03-dark-png]][example-c3-md]|
| **[Example c04, Gold Light][example-c4-md]:** [![m3-example-c04-light-png]][example-c4-md] | **[Example c04, Gold Dark][example-c4-md]:** [![m3-example-c04-dark-png]][example-c4-md] |
| **[Example d03, Porcupine Light][example-d3-md]:** [![m3-example-d03-light-png]][example-d3-md] | **[Example d03, Porcupine Dark][example-d3-md]:** [![m3-example-d03-dark-png]][example-d3-md] |
| **[Example c05, Yellow Light][example-c5-md]:** [![m3-example-c05-light-png]][example-c5-md] | **[Example c05, Yellow Dark][example-c5-md]:** [![m3-example-c05-dark-png]][example-c5-md] |
| **[Example d07, Dark Olive Green Light][example-d7-md]:** [![m3-example-d07-light-png]][example-d7-md] | **[Example d07, Dark Olive Green Dark][example-d7-md]:** [![m3-example-d07-dark-png]][example-d7-md] |
| **[Example c06, Lime Light][example-c6-md]:** [![m3-example-c06-light-png]][example-c6-md] | **[Example c06, Lime Dark][example-c6-md]:** [![m3-example-c06-dark-png]][example-c6-md] |
| **[Example c07, Green Light][example-c7-md]:** [![m3-example-c07-light-png]][example-c7-md] | **[Example c07, Green Dark][example-c7-md]:** [![m3-example-c07-dark-png]][example-c7-md] |
| **[Example d10, Green Light][example-d10-md]:** [![m3-example-d10-light-png]][example-d10-md] | **[Example d10, Green Dark][example-d10-md]:** [![m3-example-d10-dark-png]][example-d10-md] |
| **[Example d02, Cadmium Green Light][example-d2-md]:** [![m3-example-d02-light-png]][example-d2-md] | **[Example d02, Cadmium Green Dark][example-d2-md]:** [![m3-example-d02-dark-png]][example-d2-md] |
| **[Example c08, Cyan Light][example-c8-md]:** [![m3-example-c08-light-png]][example-c8-md] | **[Example c08, Cyan Dark][example-c8-md]:** [![m3-example-c08-dark-png]][example-c8-md] |
| **[Example d06, Teal Blue Light][example-d6-md]:** [![m3-example-d06-light-png]][example-d6-md] | **[Example d06, Teal Blue Dark][example-d6-md]:** [![m3-example-d06-dark-png]][example-d6-md] |
| **[Example c09, Blue Light][example-c9-md]:** [![m3-example-c09-light-png]][example-c9-md] | **[Example c09, Blue Dark][example-c9-md]:** [![m3-example-c09-dark-png]][example-c9-md] |
| **[Example d09, Indigo Light][example-d9-md]:** [![m3-example-d09-light-png]][example-d9-md] | **[Example d09, Indigo Dark][example-d9-md]:** [![m3-example-d09-dark-png]][example-d9-md] |
| **[Example c10, Geek Blue Light][example-c10-md]:** [![m3-example-c10-light-png]][example-c10-md] | **[Example c10, Geek Blue Dark][example-c10-md]:** [![m3-example-c10-dark-png]][example-c10-md] |
| **[Example d01, Purple Light][example-d01-md]:** [![m3-example-d01-light-png]][example-d01-md] | **[Example d01, Purple Dark][example-d01-md]:** [![m3-example-d01-dark-png]][example-d01-md] |
| **[Example c11, Purple Light][example-c11-md]:** [![m3-example-c11-light-png]][example-c11-md] | **[Example c11, Purple Dark][example-c11-md]:** [![m3-example-c11-dark-png]][example-c11-md] |
| **[Example d04, Magenta Light][example-d4-md]:** [![m3-example-d04-light-png]][example-d4-md] | **[Example d04, Magenta Dark][example-d4-md]:** [![m3-example-d04-dark-png]][example-d4-md] |
| **[Example c12, Magenta Light][example-c12-md]:** [![m3-example-c12-light-png]][example-c12-md] | **[Example c12, Magenta Dark][example-c12-md]:** [![m3-example-c12-dark-png]][example-c12-md] |


<!--- References to pictures... --->

[m3-example-d01-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d01-light.png
[m3-example-d02-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d02-light.png
[m3-example-d03-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d03-light.png
[m3-example-d04-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d04-light.png
[m3-example-d05-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d05-light.png
[m3-example-d06-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d06-light.png
[m3-example-d07-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d07-light.png
[m3-example-d08-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d08-light.png
[m3-example-d09-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d09-light.png
[m3-example-d10-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d10-light.png

[m3-example-d01-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d01-dark.png
[m3-example-d02-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d02-dark.png
[m3-example-d03-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d03-dark.png
[m3-example-d04-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d04-dark.png
[m3-example-d05-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d05-dark.png
[m3-example-d06-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d06-dark.png
[m3-example-d07-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d07-dark.png
[m3-example-d08-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d08-dark.png
[m3-example-d09-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d09-dark.png
[m3-example-d10-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-d10-dark.png

[m3-example-c01-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c01-light.png
[m3-example-c02-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c02-light.png
[m3-example-c03-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c03-light.png
[m3-example-c04-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c04-light.png
[m3-example-c05-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c05-light.png
[m3-example-c06-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c06-light.png
[m3-example-c07-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c07-light.png
[m3-example-c08-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c08-light.png
[m3-example-c09-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c09-light.png
[m3-example-c10-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c10-light.png
[m3-example-c11-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c11-light.png
[m3-example-c12-light-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c12-light.png

[m3-example-c01-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c01-dark.png
[m3-example-c02-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c02-dark.png
[m3-example-c03-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c03-dark.png
[m3-example-c04-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c04-dark.png
[m3-example-c05-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c05-dark.png
[m3-example-c06-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c06-dark.png
[m3-example-c07-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c07-dark.png
[m3-example-c08-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c08-dark.png
[m3-example-c09-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c09-dark.png
[m3-example-c10-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c10-dark.png
[m3-example-c11-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c11-dark.png
[m3-example-c12-dark-png]: ../assets/screenshots/m3-example-c12-dark.png

[cielab-io-colors-png]: ../assets/screenshots/cielab-io-colors.png

<!--- References to internal links... --->

[example-d01-md]: ../examples/example-d1.md
[example-d2-md]: ../examples/example-d2.md
[example-d3-md]: ../examples/example-d3.md
[example-d4-md]: ../examples/example-d4.md
[example-d5-md]: ../examples/example-d5.md
[example-d6-md]: ../examples/example-theme-d06-tealblue.md
[example-d7-md]: ../examples/example-d7.md
[example-d8-md]: ../examples/example-d8.md
[example-d9-md]: ../examples/example-d9.md
[example-d10-md]: ../examples/example-d10.md

[example-c1-md]: ../examples/example-c1.md
[example-c2-md]: ../examples/example-c2.md
[example-c3-md]: ../examples/example-c3.md
[example-c4-md]: ../examples/example-c4.md
[example-c5-md]: ../examples/example-c5.md
[example-c6-md]: ../examples/example-c6.md
[example-c7-md]: ../examples/example-c7.md
[example-c8-md]: ../examples/example-c8.md
[example-c9-md]: ../examples/example-c9.md
[example-c10-md]: ../examples/example-c10.md
[example-c11-md]: ../examples/example-c11.md
[example-c12-md]: ../examples/example-c12.md

[material-3-analysis-picking-the-hue-url]: ../../basics/m3-analysis-hue-picker/
[Material 3 Home Assistant implementation]: ../../basics/ha-m3-implementation/
[Material 3 Home Assistant concepts]: ../../basics/ha-m3-introduction/
[Material 3 Theme Installation]: ../../start/installation/
[Material 3 Design Your Own Theme]: ../../design/prerequisites/

<!--- References to external links... --->

[AmoebeLabs Swiss Army Knife Example 12]: https://swiss-army-knife.docs.amoebelabs.com/examples/example-12/
[cielab-io-url]: https://cielab.io
