docs/start/introduction.md, before:

---
template: overrides/main.html
---

#Getting started

Welcome to the Material 3 Themes for Home Assistant documentation!

[Material 3](https://m3.material.io/) is the latest and greatest version of the Material Design language from Google:

!!! Important "Make personal devices feel personal with Material Design 3, Google’s most expressive and adaptable design system yet!"

##:material-home-floor-3: M3 or Material YOU and Home Assistant

M3 is the overall design language, containing colors, typography and UI elements for websites and Android.

The M3 Themes for Home Assistant will only use the colors part and extends and adapts these guidelines to create themes for Home Assistant.

So lets start with an overview of the "Dynamic color" system that allows M3 to adapt the color scheme to the user preferences, as that is what is used to create the M3 Themes for Home Assistant.

If you just want to use these themes, head over to the Installation. You can look at the examples for the existing M3 themes.

If you want to know more, and even design your own M3 themes, read more at basics and Design your own.

Commit message:

Big update for color systems and examples

docs/start/introduction.md, after:

---
template: overrides/main.html
---

#Getting started

Welcome to the Material 3 Themes for Home Assistant documentation!

[Material 3](https://m3.material.io/) is the latest and greatest version of the Material Design language from Google:

!!! Important "Make personal devices feel personal with Material Design 3, Google’s most expressive and adaptable design system yet!"

##:material-home-floor-3: M3 or Material YOU

M3 is the overall design language, containing colors, typography and UI elements for websites and Android.

The M3 Themes for Home Assistant will only use the colors part and extends and adapts these guidelines to create themes for Home Assistant.

##:material-home-floor-3: How to proceed

If you just want to use one of the available example themes, head over to the Installation. You can check the examples section for the existing M3 themes.

If you want to know more, and even design your own M3 themes and how to use them in Home Assistant, read more at basics and Design your own.

Happy Theming!
